Start travel and Hotel information (#749)
JuliaCon/juliacon.github.io: 2026/travel.md

See the [visa page](/2026/visa) for more information!

## Accessibility

In Mainz, the most common way for people to get around is by bicycle, on foot, or by public transport. 
Additional information on travel advice for individuals with disabilities can be found [below](#travel-with-a-disability).
The conference location is close to the city centre, and is available within 20 minutes walking from the central train station.

## Reaching Mainz

Germany is well-connected to the rest of Europe by air, rail, and road.
Mainz, in particular, is easily accessible from various European cities.
Within Germany, the city is well-connected by train. Tickets for trains can be purchased at the station or [online](https://int.bahn.de/en).

\\

### Frankfurt airport

The closest airport to Mainz is Frankfurt (FRA). One can easily get from FRA to Mainz on local public transport.
To search for connections on <https://int.bahn.de/en>, please use the start "Frankfurt(Main) Flughafen" (Frankfurt Airport) and the destination "Mainz Hbf" (Mainz Central Station). The regional trains RE2 and RE3, as well as the tram S8, depart regularly from the regional train station at Frankfurt Airport.

> 

Reviewer: Should we mention the local public transport ticket included in JuliaCon tickets?

Reviewer 2: Also should we mention that the regional train is less expensive than ICE? I have no idea how much detail to give about the wild, wild world of Deutsche Bahn 😅

# Venue Information

JuliaCon 2026, the annual conference for the Julia programming language enthusiasts, is set to take place at the Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz, Germany from August 10th until August 15th. Please take a look at the [schedule](/2026/schedule/)

@@row,text-center
@@col-12,col-md-6
~~~
<a class="btn" style="width:100%; border-color: #9d253d; text-decoration: none;" href="/2026/venue-hotels">
    Check our <b>promo discounts</b> on the hotels!
</a>
~~~
@@
@@
\\

## Visa Info

Germany is part of the [Schengen Area](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schengen_Area).
If you need a visa to enter the Schengen Area, you will need a visa to enter Germany. JuliaCon 2026 will provide invitation letters to attendees who need a visa to enter Germany.
Please note that we cannot provide any financial support for your visa application.

See the [visa page](/2026/visa) for more information!

## Accessibility

In Mainz, the most common way for people to get around is by bicycle, on foot, or by public transport. 
Additional information on travel advice for individuals with disabilities can be found [below](#travel-with-a-disability).

> The conference location is close to the city centre, and is available within 20 minutes walking from the central train station.

Reviewer 2: Instead of "is available" I might say "can be reached in 20 minutes or less on foot"

> The conference location is close to the city centre, and is available within 20 minutes walking from the central train station.

Author: ```suggestion
The conference location is close to the city centre, and can be reached in 20 minutes or less on foot from the central train station.
```

See also <https://www.uni-mainz.de/en/campus-map/#by-plane>.

### Public transport: KombiTicket

Your JuliaCon 2026 conference ticket includes a **KombiTicket** — a free public transport pass valid from August 9 to 15, 2026, within the [Rhein-Main-Verkehrsverbund (RMV)](https://www.rmv.de/en/) network. The RMV covers Mainz, Frankfurt, Wiesbaden, and the wider Rhine-Main region, so you can use buses, trams, S-Bahn, and regional trains throughout the area at no extra cost during the conference.

This makes it easy to get from Frankfurt Airport (FRA) or Frankfurt main station (Frankfurt Hbf) to Mainz, and to travel around Mainz itself, all included with your ticket.

### By train (Deutsche Bahn event offer)

JuliaCon 2026 participants can travel throughout Germany by train at a discounted rate via a dedicated Deutsche Bahn event offer (valid as of April 2026):

- **Up to 10% discount** on standard fares
- **BahnCard compatible** — combine with your existing BahnCard discount
- **CO₂-free travel** — arrival and departure on Deutsche Bahn trains is fully offset with renewable energy
- **Flexible booking** — tickets available for all routes across Germany

> [Book your discounted train ticket now](https://www.eventanreise-bahn.de/?event=49579&language=en)

Reviewer 2: Missing a period at the end of this sentence

> [Book your discounted train ticket now](https://www.eventanreise-bahn.de/?event=49579&language=en)

Author: ```suggestion
[Book your discounted train ticket now.](https://www.eventanreise-bahn.de/?event=49579&language=en)
```

# Venue Information

> JuliaCon 2026, the annual conference for the Julia programming language enthusiasts, is set to take place at the Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz, Germany.

Reviewer 2: Should this include the dates?

@@row,text-center
@@col-12,col-md-6
~~~

> <a class="btn" style="width:100%; border-color: #9d253d; text-decoration: none;" href="/2024/venue-hotels">

Reviewer 2: `/2024/venue-hotels`?

>     Check our <b>promo 15% discounts</b> on the hotels!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Check our <b>promo discounts</b> on the hotels!
```

</a>
~~~
@@
@@
\\

## Visa Info

> Germany is part of the Schengen Area. If you need a visa to enter the Schengen Area, you will need a visa to enter Germany. JuliaCon 2026 will provide invitation letters to attendees who need a visa to enter Germany. Please note that we cannot provide any financial support for your visa application.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps add a link explaining what the Schengen Area is?
```suggestion
Germany is part of the [Schengen Area](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schengen_Area).
If you need a visa to enter the Schengen Area, you will need a visa to enter Germany. JuliaCon 2026 will provide invitation letters to attendees who need a visa to enter Germany.
Please note that we cannot provide any financial support for your visa application.
```

### Invitation Letter

If you need an invitation letter for your visa application, please contact \email

### Visa Application

Please check the [Federal Foreign Office](https://www.auswaertiges-amt.de/en/visa-service/215870-215870), Germany's embassy to your country,

> and [Schengen Visa Info](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/).

Reviewer 3: Just a note: this is not an official website (it says so in the footer). That said, it seems genuinely helpful and not aimed at exploiting people (as many such sites are). Still, might be a good idea to point this out?

An official EU source seems to be e.g. <https://home-affairs.ec.europa.eu/policies/schengen/visa-policy_en>

## Accessibility

In Mainz, the most common way for people to get around is by bicycle, on foot, or by public transport. 
Additional information on travel advice for individuals with disabilities can be found [below](#travel-with-a-disability).
The conference location is close to the city centre, and is available within 20 minutes walking from the central train station.

## Reaching Mainz

The Germany is well-connected to the rest of Europe by air, rail, and road. Mainz, in particular, is easily accessible from various European cities. Within the Germanyz, the city is well-connected by train. The tickets for trains can be purchased at the station or online.

\\

### Frankfurt airport

> The closest airport to Mainz, is Frankfurt (FRA). One can easily get from FRA to Mainz on local public transport.

Reviewer 2: No comma after Mainz

Maybe link to the public transport line people would use?
